Many insurers focus
on either affordable pricing or premium features
.  Providing both effectively is
rare, but IIC
Lombard breaks that pattern.
So, along with unlimited sum insured,
we are also providing real-world features like surrogacy maternity
.
So at IIC Lombard, we have a strong
portfolio as well as many customer-oriented
plans.  Over the
last 20 years, IICI Lombard has become
a strong and reputable player for us
.  Hello everyone, I am Ajith, welcome
to Tito Insurance Jaroda Back Team, we have provided
honest unbiased insurance guidance to more than 9 lakh Indians
.  So if you too
need guidance on your insurance journey,
use the link in the description for a free call
.  No spam, no pushy sales.  So,
coming to this video, we will
completely break down IIC Lamba and
see the company's performance, its four major plans, as well as the additional waiting periods, policy features and unique benefits of these policies.  Along with that,
let's also
observe what the discounts and premiums are like.
Looking at the company's background, it is a joint venture with IICI Lombard, IICI Bank
and Canada's Fair Facts
.
One of the leading private general insurers in India.  So, it is a well-established company, having been publicly listed since 2017 and
having a market cap of more than 85,000 crores
.  And the customer-centric approach
focuses on digital platforms and AI-driven solutions
.  And the features in the product are also
very innovative
.  And 24 plus years of
experience is the backbone of this
company.  So if you look at the company's metrics, the average
claim settlement ratio for the last three years is 85%.  So
this is a bit low, especially when
compared to reputed players like HFC and Aditya Birla, whose
net claim ratio
is 82.62%, which means they are maintaining risk well
and the company
is also profitable.  And there
are also few complaints.  There
are only nine registered complaints for every 10,000 claims.
And across India, there are 10,800 plus
network hospitals.
And their business has also been averaging Rs
4814 crores for the last three years
.  So the business
volume is also very stable.
And if we look at the company's portfolio,
we have four key plans at IICI
.  First IICI Lambad Elevate
Max Protect Premium Activate
Booster which is a super top up plan
and Health Advantage Apex Plus so
now let's look at them according to profiles
.  Starting with the Elevate
plan.  Elevate Plan is
a flagship comprehensive policy for IIC Lombat
.  So we have the availability of
unlimited coverage in addition to the standard sum insured
.  If we look at the core features of this policy,
we do not have any restrictions in this policy
.  So there are no co-
payments or sub-limits,
but room rent is only
provided if it is a single private room
.  If not, we can upgrade it with Yed On as well
.  And pre-
and post-hospitalization coverage is
provided to us for 90 and 180 days
.  Along with that, it has all the rest of the
features.  There are coverages like day care, AYUSH
domestic, up to some in
short and if we
look at the bonus and restoration of this policy, we will be
provided with a 20% bonus every
year up to 100%, this is irrespective of
claims, that is, we will get a bonus whether we make claims or
not.
Along with that, we also have an add-on called Power Booster
.  Regarding restoration,
unlimited restoration is being
provided for any illness.
If we use our cover amount partially
or completely, our cover
amount will be refilled.  And if we
look at the waiting periods, we have all the common
waiting periods.   The
initial 30-day waiting period
covers only accidents for up to 30 days.  And
there is also a two-year specific illness waiting period.
And there is a three-year pre-existing
disease waiting period.  And if we
look at the unique features of this policy, we have
surrogacy mother and oocyte donor coverage, which is
provided for up to 5
locks, and some add-ons
are also very helpful.  For
example, Gem Stock So provides coverage
for conditions like diabetes, hypertension, and asthma
from as early as 30 days, without requiring a three-year pre-existing disease waiting period
.  And if you
want a maternity benefit in your policy, that
option is also provided in this policy
.  Otherwise, up to 10% of
your base sum insured. If we
take 5 locks, we will only have coverage up to 50,000
.  This benefit is provided up to a maximum of Rs. 1,00,000.
And Infinite Care provides us with coverage for one hospitalization during the policy lifetime
without any annual sum insured capping
.  In addition to these, if we
look at the other yes-ons, we have the reduction of the
waiting period for pre-existing diseases
.  So there is a chance that we can reduce the three-year waiting
period to two years or even one year
.
And with the addition of Claim Protect,
we are also providing coverage for non-medical expenses or
consumables such as cotton swabs, syringes, and PPE
kits
.  As
mentioned earlier, they provide
us with a 100% extra bonus every year with the add-on called Power Booster
.  That too
without any capping and with the room rent
modifier, we can either
upgrade or downgrade our room rent.
So, we are providing the option to upgrade or downgrade the single private that comes by default
.  And
another unique feature is that this
policy has a two-year waiting period for specific illnesses, such as
some slow-growing illnesses
.  If not,
there is a possibility of reducing that waiting period to one year.  If
we
also
need coverage for durable equipment like a ventilator or wheelchair, we provide up to 5 locks
.  Again
with help.  In addition, we are
also provided with an annual health check-up on a yearly basis,
and
with an inflation protector,
our cover amount is
increased every year equal to the inflation rate in our country.  And if you
look at the major discounts in this policy,
you can get up to a 15% discount depending on your credit score
.  And if you renew early,
that is, if you renew the policy 30 days in advance, you will
be given a discount of 2.5%.  And in addition, if we
take a multi-tenure policy, that is, if we
pay for two or three years at once, we will
provide a 10% discount on the second year premium and a 15% discount on the third year premium.  The next policy
we will look at is Max Protect
Premium, so this policy provides a high value coverage
.  We have sum
insured ranging from 1 crore to 10 crores
.  Along with that,
there is also an unlimited sum insured option.  And if we look at the core features of this policy, it does have
zone-based co-
payment.  So if we want to claim
in a zone other than the one we have taken, we will have to pay a
co-payment
.  So there is a chance that
out-of-pocket expenses will increase due to this
.  While other restrictions are
similar, we do not have any disease-wise sub-
limits.  Otherwise, coverage is provided only up to Rs
1 crore for modern treatments
.  We
can take any room except the
sweet room and the pre and post
hospitalization coverage is also very good, they are
providing it for 60 and 180 days
.  In addition to this, usual coverage for
day care treatments, modern
treatments, domiciliary treatments
and even Ayush treatments are
provided up to the sum insured
.  If we look at the bonus, this policy
provides us with a 20% bonus per year, but if not, the
maximum is 100%. This
bonus comes only if we do not claim.
This is a typical no-claim bonus and
restoration benefit. However, if we
want to claim again for the same illness, we
can claim the restored amount only after 45 days.  This is
called the 45-day cooling period.  And this
policy has all the usual waiting periods
.  There is a 30-day initial
waiting period, a two-
year waiting period for specific conditions, and a
three-year waiting period for pre-existing conditions
.  And if
you look at the unique features of this policy, it is
available with unlimited sum insured
.  Along with that, home care
treatment is also being provided on a
cashless basis. This policy
also has a claim protector,
which means that consumables are also covered up to the sum insured
.  And even worldwide,
emergency treatments are covered up
to a maximum of 3 crores.
And if we look at the other benefits, we have a reduction in the
waiting period for pre-existing diseases
.  We can reduce the three-year
pre-existing disease waiting
period to two years
.  And the major
discounts in this policy can be called multi-pay discounts
.  If you pay the premium for two years
upfront, you will get a 10% discount on the second year, and
if you pay for three years, you will get a 10% discount on the second year,
and a 15% discount on the third year
.  So overall, we
can say this is a decent plan.  Otherwise,
out-of-pocket
expenses may vary due to zone-based co-payments.  So there is
no such thing as a payment in Elevate, so
Elevate is set for many profiles
.  The next policy we are going to look at is
Activate Booster, so this is not a base policy, but
a super top-up plan.
We have various deductible options in this super top-up plan
.  The options, ranging
from 3 locks to 20 locks and some
insured, are also quite exhaustive
.  They are providing anything from 10 lakhs to 3 crores
.  And if we
look at the co-features of this policy, we do
not have any restrictions, that is,
we do not have any co-payment, disease-wise sub-limits,
but the room rent is
provided up to a single private AC room by
default. If you still
want a better option, we can take the Yed On and
upgrade.  And
we are also provided with pre- and post-hospitalization coverage for 90 and 180 days
.  And day care, domiciliary
modern treatments, and Ayush treatments
are all covered up to the same standard.  And since this is a super top-up
plan, we don't have
features like bonus restoration.
And when it comes to waiting periods, there is a
30-day initial waiting period and a two-
year specific illness waiting
period.  For
conditions like diabetes, hypertension, and cardiac, there is a
90-day wait if there are no pre-existing conditions.  And there is a waiting period of
three years for pre-existing diseases
.  And if we
look at the benefits of this policy, we
also have the Gema Start Benefit here, which means that the
three-year waiting period can be reduced
to 30 days for certain listed medical conditions
.  And
with the Claim Protector,
your cover amount will increase with Consumables Inflation Protect
and with the
Pre-Existing Disease Waiting
Period Modification in this policy, you can reduce the three-year
waiting period to 24 months or
even 12 months.
If you want an annual health checkup,
that's also available online.
And there is a room modifier option, as
mentioned earlier, and along with that there is
also a guaranteed deductible deduction.  This means that
your deductible will be reduced by 10% every year,
up to 50%. If you look at the discounts in this policy,
we have common discounts, i.e.
multi-10 year discounts. If you pay for two years, you will get
10%, and if you pay for three years, you will get
10% discount on the second year premiums
and 15% discount on the third year premiums
.  And there
is also a credit score discount of up to 15%.
So the highlight of this policy is that we have very good coverage for pre
and post hospitalization expenses
and the guaranteed
deductible reduction is also a
rare combination in the category.  So,
we are going to look at the last plan from ICICI Lombard,
Health Advantage Apex
Plus, and if we look at the positioning of this policy,
we have sum insured options ranging from 5 lakhs
to 3 crores.
And our room rent restrictions also
vary depending on the sub-insured of our policy
.  Otherwise, we have no co-payments in core features
and
no restrictions like disease-wise sub-limits.
Room rent is for up to 20
single private rooms
.  However, there is no
capping if you take out a higher sum insured
.  And pre- and post-
hospitalization coverage is provided for 60 and 180 days
.
Along with that, there is coverage like day care and AYUSH domiciliary
.  And they provide us with a bonus of 20%,
up to 100%,
regardless of claims, and they also
do restoration unlimited times.
But those who have taken a cover amount of 5 locks and 7.5 0.5 locks will
only have one-time restoration.  And if you want to
claim again for the same illness, there
is a 45-day cooling period to use this restoration benefit.  And if we
look at the waiting periods in this policy,
we have all the common waiting periods
again.  So, there is an initial
waiting period of 30 days and a specific illness
waiting period of 2 years and
some conditions like diabetes, hypertension,
cardiac conditions have a
waiting period of 90 days unless there is a pre-existing
condition and the pre-existing
condition is considerably lower, meaning we have
only a two-year waiting period by default.  Shorter than
standard, this policy has unique features such as
surrogate mother coverage for up
to 5 locks, along with on-site donor
coverage and home care, which are also provided at 5% of the sum
assured.  And
along with that, animal vaccinations up to
10,000 will be provided.  If
you want worldwide coverage,
Sum and Sure provides it with limits if you take more than 25 locks
.  So
if we look at the additional benefits, we see that maternity
coverage is also provided as an additional benefit in this policy
.  Delivery complications
New Bond coverage is also being provided along with
vaccination
cover and claim protector
and the same insured protector means that the
cover amount increases based on inflation
.  They are
also providing us with OPD and pharmacy coverage with a rider called And Fit
.  And
if we look at the discounts, we are providing discounts of
2.5% to 5% for those who have taken the pneumococcal vaccine
.
Along with that, there are multi-pay slabs, meaning if
we pay for two or three years, there
are discounts of 10%
and 15%, and based on credit score,
discounts of up to 15% are being
provided.  So,
the benefits in this policy may not
seem as unique as before this plan, after the introduction of IIC's flagship product Present Elevate.  Overall, if you
consider all the practical points, you
can definitely consider Elevate Max Protect Lantic policies if you want unlimited restoration and unlimited sum insured coverage.  These are useful during times of high value claims
and
also provide a safety net.  In addition,
with Gem Start and Pre-Existing Disease Waiting Period Modification riders, we can provide faster access to certain medical conditions such as
diabetes, blood pressure, and asthma
.  But there
are also some limitations.  For
example, there is a chance that policy premiums will increase due to room capping, zonal co-
payment and higher dependency
.  So if you have such
upgrade needs, you'll need to plan a little
strategically
.  Overall, the dito
opinion is that innovation is
strong, with many innovative features being provided, including unlimited sum
assured restoration and surrogacy coverage, and
coverages like event start and pre-existing waiting period modification
.  And these features may seem
very practical to us, mostly depending on our stage of life
.  But there are
some major considerations
.  So, an 85% claim settlement
ratio is a bit low when compared to industry leaders
.  And
some plans
have restrictions like zonal co-payments, which means there is a high
chance of increased out-of-pocket expenses
.  So,
since the portfolio is also very complex, we may experience
decision fatigue at the time of purchase
.  But if you also want to select the
right plan and Yed-on mixture based on your family health insurance profile and budget,
book a free call with Dito Advisors.
The link is in the description.
If you need comparison support, our team will compare the plans
side by side and
explain them in simple
Telugu. You will have clear recommendations
and full support from purchase to claims will be
provided at no
cost.  So if you too have
experience with the IIC Lombard claim process or
not, please share your opinion on the unlimited coverage or maternity
features
in the comments section.  If
you found this breakdown helpful, please like, share, and
subscribe to help spread financial and insurance literacy
.  See you again in the next video.
Stay safe, stay insured.